# README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...



	The author of Samuel lets us in on something of great importance to the character of Absalom in the first verse of chapter 15. When Samuel prophesied saying that Israel would have a king as they desired, he warned them of who their kings would become. In 1 Samuel 8:11, He says, “[the king] will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and to be his horsemen and to run before his chariots.” Ironically enough, neither Saul nor David had used chariots within the recorded history of the Bible. Therefore, Absalom may very well have been setting himself up to fulfill the prophesy of Samuel by doing one thing that the previous kings had not done, and if so we see that he is shrewd man, seeking to use the words of God for his own benefit. From verse 1, we see Absalom setting himself up to rebel against and overthrow King David. Another irony that we should note is that previously in the Bible, having chariots and horses has only depicted enemies of Israel and Yahweh. For example, the Egyptians in Exodus 14 & 15, Deuteronmy 11, and Joshua 24, the Northern Canaanites in Joshua 11, Judges 4 & 5, and the Arameans in 2 Samuel 8 & 10 all used them, albeit without success, against Israel and Yahweh. 
	The next thing Absalom is set himself up as a judge of Israel. Since the time of Moses, the leader of the Israelites has offered justice to the people of the land. In Exodus 18, we see Moses acting similarly to Israel’s highest court. We see the judge named Deborah in Judges 4 pronouncing judgment for those who came to her. In 1 Samuel 8:5, the people asked Samuel to “appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations.” To judge the disputes of Israel was to establish yourself as one who rules over them. Absalom lied to the people by saying that David had no one to judge them. He also gave the impression that he would do a better job than David, not because David was lacking, but because of Absalom’s deception. He arose early and stood at the gate to intercept all who would come. He then began to flatter them always giving approval to their claims. Next, he planted seeds of a better Israel, one where he would be king. These tactics seemed to go well, because some men would pay homage to him, he would stop them and in feigned humility, kiss their hand. This was a sign of great respect and acceptance so it would have been very persuasive to those who received it. If the people were willing to pay homage to him as if he were the king, Absalom was willing to ensure their prolonged loyalty by paying them immense respect.
	After four years of sowing division between Israel and David, Absalom began the next part of his plan. First, he forced David into letting him leave Jerusalem and go to Hebron. Hebron also just so happens to be the place in which David was announced as king over Judah. How did he force him? In verse 15:8, Absalom said, “For your servant vowed a vow while I lived at Geshur in Aram, saying, ‘If the lord will indeed bring me back too Jerusalem, then I will offer worship to the Lord.’” Numbers 30:2 says, “If a man vows a vow to the Lord, for swears an oath to bund himself by a pledge, he shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.” If David did not let him go, he would prevent his own son from honoring the Lord. While this may have been enough to convince him, it did not cause David to openly ponder about Absalom’s obedience to Deuteronomy 23:21, which says “If you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it, for the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and you will be guilty of sin.” Yet again, Absalom uses the Torah for his own purposes, not to honor God, but to elevate himself.
	Absalom then takes 200 men from Jerusalem who were innocent in the matter as hostage. Behind the walls of Hebron, Absalom has an excellent tactical advantage over David to succeed in his hostile takeover. To make matters worse, Bathsheba’s grandfather, Ahitophel the Gilonite, who happens to be the wisest man in Israel at the moment, betrays David and seeks to exact his revenge on David for committing adultery with his granddaughter. When David discovers this plot to overtake his kingdom, he and his followers flee leaving 10 concubines behind to run the kingdom in his absence. In an attempt to throw off Absalom’s conquest, David sends another great counselor of his, Hushai the Archite, to give bad counsel to Absalom.
	When Absalom brings his army to Jerusalem, he seeks the counsel of Bathsheba’s grandfather, the wisest man of Israel, and he tells him to show his dominance over David as the new king by sleeping with all of his father’s concubines in front of all of Israel. Thus, Ahithophel begins his revenge against David’s adultery with David’s son’s adultery. By taking Ahithophel up on this offer, Absalom shows what has been hinted at this whole time, he does not care to follow God’s word unless it benefits him. The commentary I was reading and a couple other sources seem to imply that Absalom broke Leviticus 20:11, which forbade a son from sleeping with his father’s wife. Even though these were David’s concubines and not his wives, the common understanding is that the principle is the same for the son would be uncovering his father’s nakedness in both cases. If Absalom were a man of God, he surely would not have done this without repentance. I do no think it is coincidence to see David and Absalom broke two commandments Exodus 20:10, which says do not lay with your neighbor’s wife, and Exodus 20:11, do not lay with your father’s wife. Both of these commandments had the punishment of death, both of these men knew of the law, but only one man repented.
	At this point, Ahithophel advises the Absalom goes and crushes David’s forces by taking about 10,000 more troops than David has at the time and immediately following them with the sole goal of killing David. Absalom agrees with this plan and in no time at all, he is further distinguished from David as he is willing to kill God’s anointed. If you remember from last week, when given the opportunity to kill Saul, David chose to respect the authority that has been placed above him and respect God who placed Saul above him. Fortunately for David, God had sent Hushai the Archite to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel. Immediately, when Hushai had returned in 16:15, he came saying, “Long live the king! Long live the king!” And Absalom said to Hushai, “Is this your loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go your friend?” And Hush said to Absalom, “No, for whom the Lord and this people and all the men of Israel have chosen, his I will be, and with him I will remain, and again, whom should I serve? Should it not be his son? As I have served your father, so I will serve you.” Absalom seems to accept this. 
	The commentator makes an excellent point, in this particular conversation, never does Hushai explicitly say he will serve Absalom. When saying, “Long live the king!” Absalom simply assumed that Hush was referring to himself instead of David. When Absalom asks if Hushai appearing to abandon David was his loyalty, Hushai said no for his loyalty was to who the Lord, this people, and all the men of Israel had chosen. As much as Absalom tried to mimic the Lord’s anointing of David by declaring himself king at Hebron, God did not choose him. The people did not all choose him. The people did choose David in 2 Samuel 5:1-3 which says, “Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, “Behold, we are your bone and flesh. In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was you who led out and bought in Israel. And the Lord said too you, ‘You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over Israel.’ So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David made a convenient with them at Hebron before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel.” There may be people who were deceived by Absalom into supporting him, but their original loyalty was to David. None of these things apply to Absalom, but in his pride, he could not see that the man who he would trust instead of the wisest counselor in Israel, was not there to support Absalom, but the man Absalom desired to be.
	When asked about Ahithophel’s counsel in defeating David, Hushai convinced Absalom that it was a bad plan and that he should take a course of action that would only actually help David buy time. Ahithophel eventually hears about this, realizes that Absalom is going to lose, that he himself will be considered a traitor, so the wisest man in Israel sets his house in order and kills himself. Then Absalom and David’s armies meet in battle and Absalom is riding along and his head gets stuck in a tree. It’s very likely that it gets stuck due to his luscious locks of hair. This is what I mean, in 2 Samuel 14:25-26, it says, “Now in all Israel there was no one so much to be praised for his handsome appearance as Absalom, From the sole of his foot to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him. And when he cut the hair of his head (for at the end of every year he used to cut it; when it was heavy on him, he cut it), he weighted the hair of his head, two hundred shekels by the king’s weight.” That’s nearly 5 pounds of hair. He did not cut it in his desire to get close to God with a Nazirite vow, he simply cut it because it was too heavy for him. I think it’s safe to assume that his hair was long enough, heavy enough that it is what got him stuck in the tree. Absalom’s attempt to upkeep something that is vanity was his downfall. His pride in his appearance attributed to his death. While hanging from a tree, David’s promise to the deceptive wise woman is somewhat ironic for he said that not one hair of your son shall fall to the ground. Well, how could it when it is caught up in a tree? Eventually, Joab and his men come and kill Absalom against David’s orders. Absalom committed a crime that was punishable by death and was put to death and then hung on a tree. Deuteronomy 21:22-23 makes it clear that Absalom was cursed by God. After all that Absalom had done to build himself up as the king, defying God’s will, manipulation with God’s word, and deception of the people, he had proved himself to be powerless against God.
	We skipped a lot of David’s actions without this narrative and they give an excellent foil to the actions of Absalom. David consistently remains humble, mourns for the loss, trusts in God, even sends the ark of the covenant back to Jerusalem because he doesn’t want to dishonor God by trying to use the ark as a power play to defeat Absalom. In 2 Samuel 15:25-26, it says, “Then the king said to Zadok, ‘Carry the ark of God back into it and his dwelling place. But if he says, ‘I have no pleasure in you,’ behold, here I am, let him do to me what seems good to him.“ David has no intention to fight God’s will, but instead seeks to be obedient to him and try to not get in the way of God.
	Proverbs 16:5 says “The Lord detests all the proud of heart. Be sure off this: They will not go unpunished.” James 4:6 says “God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble.” That was made abundantly clear in the way God clearly opposed Absalom and gave grace to David. So how can we avoid being opposed by the almighty, the creator of heaven and earth, the sovereign king, the one who literally spoke all things into existence? Opposing someone who literally knows your thoughts and his omnipotent does not sound like a fruitful plan. Just ask Absalom.
	First, avoid self dependence. All of Absalom’s scheming was built in empowering himself. He depended on his own ability to gain the kingdom, not God. Likewise, we should understand that our ability to fight sin, to be sanctified is not in our ability to be extremely disciplined and strong in spirit, but rather to recognize our shortcomings and get on our hands and knees and ask God to be our supply of strength. Matthew 5:3 says, “Blessed are the poor in Spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.” The poor in spirit are those who recognize the weak, sinfulness of their own hearts and lean on the power of God to make up for where they are lacking. As you lean on God, he grows the fruit of the Spirit which includes self-control (Galatians 5). We will see next week, David repented of his sin. He recognized his unclean heart. He was broken for how he had sinned against the Lord when he committed adultery. He, in spite of his sinfulness, was poor of Spirit. Absalom, on the other hand, did not repent. He sinned and made a spectacle of it without ever returning to the Lord in repentance. An excellent way to avoid self dependence is through a heart of submission and being in a perpetual state of prayer.
	Second, avoid self-righteousness. Absalom allowed the praise of man to bolster his pride. Not only that, he consistently compared himself to David and that is how he fueled his pride as well. He may have thought, I am better looking then David, I am a better judge than David, I am more righteous than David, the people love me more than David, I have a larger army than David. Instead of comparing himself to another sinful, fallen man, he should have compared himself to the word of God. You will not be judged by the works of another, how good you are compared to another. You will be judged based off of how the word of God describes you. And let me tell you, Ephesians 2:8-10 says, “For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast.” When it comes down to it, we all deserve damnation. Salvation exists not as a work, but through faith. There’s no reason for us to view our selves as better than others because the Biblical reality states that we aren’t better. Avoid self righteousness by comparing yourself to the word, not others. When Absalom interprets Hushai’s statements to be about himself, his self-righteousness is justifying himself before God and the people of Israel. He judged wrongly. This reminds me of Matthew 7:21, when Jesus says, “Not everyone who says to me, ‘Lord, Lord,’ will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, ‘Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many might works in your name?’ And then will I declare to them, ‘I never know you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.’” Absalom was doing many powerful things, great in a sense. Mighty works. Yet, he never knew God. He was truly a worker of sin, a worker of lawlesness. And God had his vengeance upon him, when he showed that Absalom was cursed by God.
	Speaking of vengeance, that leads me to the third point. Vengeance and pride go hand-in-hand. Those who are prideful often desire vengeance. Absalom’s pride, Absalom’s elevation of his own judgment above God’s judgment, started this whole mess. Instead of going through the Law, instead of appealing to the Lord’s anointed to judge the case, he took matters into his own hand to plot out his revenge. The Lord would have had justice. If Absalom had been meek, if Absalom had turned the other cheek, then he would not have died. Ultimately, pride brings death. I think a strong argument could be made that it was pride that caused Adam and Eve to disregard God’s word in the garden. Likewise, we often let our pride get in the way of submission to the word. We elevate ourselves as God instead of allowing God to be God. This blasphemes who God is as a being. To elevate ourselves to God’s level is absurd. Instead, submission to his word is key. If we observe the life of Jesus, he submitted to the will of the Father. He did not consider his equality with God something to be grasped, but instead was humbled to the point of death on a cross. Unlike Christ, we are not God. So like Christ we should humble ourselves to the will of God, even to the point of death on a cross. Avoid vengeance, even if it’s something as petite as the last word in an argument, and instead submit to God’s word.
	Last, avoid complacency of the grace you’ve been given. Absalom was given an enormous amount of grace from David when he was allowed back into Jerusalem, and when he was reconciled with him as well. In each of these scenarios, Absalom became complacent with what he was given. When he was allowed back into Jerusalem, he was grateful, but soon he desired full reconciliation. When he was allowed back into the presence of his Father, he decided that was not enough. He needed more. He needed to rule. All the while, it was only by grace that he was allowed to be there in the first place. We too should never grow complacent in the grace that was given to us. God, in his great love for us, sent his beloved Son who died on the cross and paid for our sins so we could spend an eternity with him. Our hearts are so fickle that a miracle, a sign of love such as that one so easily becomes dull news to us. We should avoid complacency because when we don’t see the grace in the Gospel, we have forgotten our need for a Savior. Avoid complacency of the grace you’ve been given, by meditating on your need for a Savior and the promises that Christ fulfilled in becoming that Savior.
  